---
layout: home
title: CS 6501
nav_exclude: true
permalink: /:path/
seo:
  type: Course
  name: Software-Defined Networking and Programmable Networks
---

# CS 6501: Software-Defined Networking and Programmable Networks

## Course description:
Today, we are witnessing a Cambrian explosion of applications with widely
different network requirements (e.g., video conferencing, AR/VR, remote
surgery). Yet network operators still rely on low-level commands when
configuring network devices and use archaic tools (e.g., ping, traceroute,
Wireshark) when troubleshooting connectivity or performance issues. As a
result, the Internet, or the network of networks, is showing its limits:
unplanned outages due to misconfigurations or cyberattacks are happening more
frequently with bigger and broader impacts.

Luckily, programmability is extending its reach to every corner of digital
communication these days. Open, programmable, and software-driven networks
allow us to develop innovative ways of managing networks, where
deeply-programmable network devices are now a commodity (e.g., programmable
switches, SmartNICs).  However, programmability is a double-edged sword. More
flexibility and freedom enabled by programmability can, in fact, lead us to a
more complex network that is harder to understand and control. Finding the
right level of abstraction for network operators while building a versatile
network  is the key challenge in today's network design.

In this class, we will explore the history of Software-Defined Networking (SDN)
and programmable networks. We will also learn what kind of problems they have
solved and what new challenges they have introduced. Specifically, we will
learn and discuss the following (tentative list): traditional networks, the
history of SDN and programmable networks,  state-of-the-art programmable
platforms (Intel Tofino, SmartNICs), languages (OpenFlow, P4, Lucid), network
verification with programmable networks, and real-world applications.

## Prerequisites
This course does not have official prerequisites. However, basic knowledge and
familiarity with computer networks will be helpful (e.g., TCP/IP layers, the
concept of packet headers, etc). CS/ECE 4457 is a good example for an
unofficial prerequisite. 

## Class Information
  - Time: Mon, Wed 2:00pm - 3:15pm
  - Location: Rice Hall 032
  - Instructor: [Hyojoon Kim](https://hyojoonkim.com){:target="_blank"}
    - Email: tcr5zr@virginia.edu
    - Office: Rice Hall 501
    - Office hours: TBD
  - [Class schedule]()

## Grading (subject to minor changes)
  - [Presentations](present): 20%. Presentation that summarizes a conference/journal paper.
  - [Reviews](review): 15%. Reviews of conference/journal papers.
  - [Assignments](assignment): 15%. Multiple class assignments.
  - [Project](project): 50%. One class project.

