---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
description: Course Syllabus
nav_exclude: false
---

### Presentations
For most of the classes, we will start with a presentation by a student. The
presentation should be around 10-15 minutes and summarize the paper we want to
discuss for the day. You don't have to cover everything in the paper. The
presentation is to set the stage and spark the interesting discussion we will
have in class. Good things to include: context and motivation, main problem the
paper is trying to solve, challenges when solving the problem(s), main design
choices and techniques of the solution, summary of evaluation, and
questions/discussion points you want to raise.

### Reviews
A big part of this course will be on reading and reviewing the literature on
the topic in hand. We will discuss one paper per class (that's two papers per
week). In preparation for each class discussion, each student is expected to
read the paper and submit a review before each class.

### Assignments
We will have two (or three) assignments. They will be mostly about helping you
to learn how to use existing tools and platforms for implementing and running
ideas/solutions in SDN and programmable networks. The existing tools and have
good tutorials you can follow.  The assignments are there to make sure you know
how to use the tools, which might become handy or even become a big part of
your class project.

### Project
Students are expected to submit a class project along with a report.  Students
should form a small group to do a project. I expect 2-3 people per project, but
this is subject to change based on class size.  Project proposal is due about a
month after the class starts. Final project presentation and its report are due
close to the end of the semester.

### Schedule
Coming soon!! 
